The Essential Tools of Open-Source: Functional Programming, Parametricity, Types
================================================================================

Open-source software projects have become an important contribution
to our profession. Volunteers and professionals working away on what
they love, aspiring to be a part of software freedom and to provide
a benefit to all.

Many tools exist to assist in this worldwide, distributed effort.
From distributed revision control systems to programming
environments, the open-source team comes to rely on these tools to
produce work.

If we are to attract skilled volunteers and work to producing
quality software as a team, we must do better than average. Not by
just a little bit.  We must be the example of a software development
team. We must exploit professional tools.

This talk will make a case that some programming tools are
neglected, often argued away under a false compromise. Why then, are
functional programming and associated consequences such as
parametricity so often neglected?  Are they truly so unimportant?

This talk will define the principle of functional programming, then
go into detail about what becomes possible by following this
principle.  Parametricity (Wadler, 1989), equational reasoning and
exploiting types in API design are an essential property of
productive software teams, especially teams composed of volunteers,
all enabled by functional programming.


Tony Morris
-----------

Tony Morris is a software product developer who has deployed
functional programming techniques in industry for over 10 years.
Tony teaches informally, at the tertiary level and for professional
programmers with a view toward observing the direct benefits of
these programming techniques to produce a viable commercial result.
He is currently a Senior Software Engineer at NICTA where he is
tasked with promoting and educating on functional programming for
the benefit of all Australian software developers.

Tony takes a fastidious, principled approach to functional
programming both when deployed in practice and when in a learning
environment to ensure maximum yield from the effort. Tony believes
that exploring principles and the following consequences provides a
rewarding experience for all involved.
